README.md, before:

# YouTube Transcript Summarizer (YTS) CLI

A command-line tool that fetches YouTube video transcripts and generates concise, well-structured summaries using AI. Perfect for quickly understanding video content without watching the full video.

## Features

- 🎥 Fetch transcripts from any YouTube video with available captions
- 🤖 Generate AI-powered summaries using local LLM models
- 📝 Multiple summary types (short, medium, long)
- 💾 Save summaries to an output file
- 🌐 Support for videos with auto-generated captions
- ⚡ Streaming output for real-time summary generation
- 📄 Output formatted transcripts

## Dependencies

- [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/) installation
- Any model on LM studio e.g. `llama-3.2-3b-instruct`

## Installation

### Prebuilt binaries

You can download the prebuilt binaries [here](https://github.com/conormkelly/yts-cli/releases).

### From Source

#### Prerequisites

- Go >=1.23

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/conormkelly/yts-cli
   cd yts-cli
   ```

2. Build the binary:

   ```bash
   make build
   ```

3. Install globally (optional):

   ```bash
   make install
   ```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Summarize a YouTube video:

```bash
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ
```

### Summary Types

Generate different summary lengths (default is medium):

```bash
# Short summary
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ -s

# Long summary
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ -l
```

### Save to File

Save the summary to a Markdown file:

```bash
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ --output summary.txt
```

### Transcript Formatting

To get a formatted version of the raw transcript without summarization:

```bash
# Display formatted transcript
yts transcript https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ

# Save formatted transcript to file
yts transcript https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ --output my-transcript.txt
```

### Configuration

YTS uses a configuration file located in a platform-specific directory.

You can customize:

- LLM base URL / port
- Model selection
- Output format
- Default summary type (short, medium [default], long)
- The short, medium, and long summary system prompts
- Transcript system prompt

You can view the current config file path and values with `yts config`.

### Environment Variables

You can override configuration settings using environment variables:

- `YTS_LLM_URL`: Override the LLM API endpoint
- `YTS_MODEL`: Override the model selection

## How It Works

1. **Transcript Fetching**: YTS fetches transcripts directly from YouTube using a pure Go implementation. It handles both manual and auto-generated captions, supporting multiple languages and formats. The fetcher:
   - Extracts caption metadata from the video page
   - Downloads the raw transcript XML
   - Processes and formats the captions into clean text

2. **AI Processing**: The transcript is processed using a local LLM (default: llama-3.2-3b-instruct) to generate a coherent summary. The processing pipeline:
   - Sends a system prompt to the LLM based on the selected summary type (short/medium/long)
   - Streams completions for responsive feedback

3. **Output Generation**: The summary is displayed in the terminal, with:
   - Proper text formatting and sanitization
   - Real-time streaming output
   - Optional file saving

## Development

### Project Structure

```txt
.
├── cmd/                   # Command implementations
│   ├── config.go          # Configuration subcommand
│   ├── root.go            # Main command logic
│   ├── transcript.go      # Transcript subcommand
│   └── version.go         # Version information subcommand
├── internal/
│   ├── config/            # Configuration management
│   │   └── config.go      # Config types and loading
│   ├── llm/               # LLM integration
│   │   └── client.go      # LLM client and streaming
│   └── transcript/        # Transcript processing
│       └── fetcher.go     # YouTube transcript fetching
├── main.go                # Entry point
└── Makefile               # Build and development commands
```

### Building

- Build for current platform: `make build`
- Create release binaries: `make release`
- Install globally: `make install`

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Open a pull request

## Legal Notice

This tool accesses publicly available YouTube video transcripts. While I believe this falls within fair use, users should:

- Review YouTube's Terms of Service
- Use the tool responsibly
- Consider YouTube's official API for commercial applications

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Transcript fetching approach inspired by [youtube-transcript-api](https://github.com/jdepoix/youtube-transcript-api) (reimplemented in pure Go)
- Built with [Cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra) CLI framework
- Configuration managed with [Viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper)

Commit message:

docs: link latest build in README

README.md, after:

# YouTube Transcript Summarizer (YTS) CLI

A command-line tool that fetches YouTube video transcripts and generates concise, well-structured summaries using AI. Perfect for quickly understanding video content without watching the full video.

## Features

- 🎥 Fetch transcripts from any YouTube video with available captions
- 🤖 Generate AI-powered summaries using local LLM models
- 📝 Multiple summary types (short, medium, long)
- 💾 Save summaries to an output file
- 🌐 Support for videos with auto-generated captions
- ⚡ Streaming output for real-time summary generation
- 📄 Output formatted transcripts

## Dependencies

- [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/) installation
- Any model on LM studio e.g. `llama-3.2-3b-instruct`

## Installation

### Prebuilt binaries

You can download the latest release from the [releases page](https://github.com/conormkelly/yts-cli/releases/latest).

### From Source

#### Prerequisites

- Go >=1.23

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/conormkelly/yts-cli
   cd yts-cli
   ```

2. Build the binary:

   ```bash
   make build
   ```

3. Install globally (optional):

   ```bash
   make install
   ```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Summarize a YouTube video:

```bash
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ
```

### Summary Types

Generate different summary lengths (default is medium):

```bash
# Short summary
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ -s

# Long summary
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ -l
```

### Save to File

Save the summary to a Markdown file:

```bash
yts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ --output summary.txt
```

### Transcript Formatting

To get a formatted version of the raw transcript without summarization:

```bash
# Display formatted transcript
yts transcript https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ

# Save formatted transcript to file
yts transcript https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ --output my-transcript.txt
```

### Configuration

YTS uses a configuration file located in a platform-specific directory.

You can customize:

- LLM base URL / port
- Model selection
- Output format
- Default summary type (short, medium [default], long)
- The short, medium, and long summary system prompts
- Transcript system prompt

You can view the current config file path and values with `yts config`.

### Environment Variables

You can override configuration settings using environment variables:

- `YTS_LLM_URL`: Override the LLM API endpoint
- `YTS_MODEL`: Override the model selection

## How It Works

1. **Transcript Fetching**: YTS fetches transcripts directly from YouTube using a pure Go implementation. It handles both manual and auto-generated captions, supporting multiple languages and formats. The fetcher:
   - Extracts caption metadata from the video page
   - Downloads the raw transcript XML
   - Processes and formats the captions into clean text

2. **AI Processing**: The transcript is processed using a local LLM (default: llama-3.2-3b-instruct) to generate a coherent summary. The processing pipeline:
   - Sends a system prompt to the LLM based on the selected summary type (short/medium/long)
   - Streams completions for responsive feedback

3. **Output Generation**: The summary is displayed in the terminal, with:
   - Proper text formatting and sanitization
   - Real-time streaming output
   - Optional file saving

## Development

### Project Structure

```txt
.
├── cmd/                   # Command implementations
│   ├── config.go          # Configuration subcommand
│   ├── root.go            # Main command logic
│   ├── transcript.go      # Transcript subcommand
│   └── version.go         # Version information subcommand
├── internal/
│   ├── config/            # Configuration management
│   │   └── config.go      # Config types and loading
│   ├── llm/               # LLM integration
│   │   └── client.go      # LLM client and streaming
│   └── transcript/        # Transcript processing
│       └── fetcher.go     # YouTube transcript fetching
├── main.go                # Entry point
└── Makefile               # Build and development commands
```

### Building

- Build for current platform: `make build`
- Create release binaries: `make release`
- Install globally: `make install`

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Open a pull request

## Legal Notice

This tool accesses publicly available YouTube video transcripts. While I believe this falls within fair use, users should:

- Review YouTube's Terms of Service
- Use the tool responsibly
- Consider YouTube's official API for commercial applications

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Transcript fetching approach inspired by [youtube-transcript-api](https://github.com/jdepoix/youtube-transcript-api) (reimplemented in pure Go)
- Built with [Cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra) CLI framework
- Configuration managed with [Viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper)
